the Grand Cherokee is a Jeep a big
American SUV wearing an iconic American
badge compared to rivals dr. BMW x5 the
mercedes-benz ML and the Land Rover
Discovery the Grand Cherokee looks Bluff
and almost utilitarian but a recent
makeover has added class and tech to
this all-terrain stalwart the u.s. motor
industry has gone through some tough
times over the past few years and
automakers like Chrysler in particular
have had to wade through troubled waters
and yet the Jeep brand has remained the
perennial symbol of the true American
spirit this is jeeps Grand Cherokee its
large full-size SUV and as the folk back
in urban Michigan would say it's just
gone through a thorough makeover
in styling terms this new Grand Cherokee
isn't really that new much of the big
floor bar for wagon silhouette and
appearance has remained unchanged which
creates a sense of easy familiarity when
you approach the Beast for the first
time
thus the shape is boxy and angular in a
macho utilitarian kind of way even
though the corners have been softened
somewhat add the tall stance the black
surfaces and the big wheels and you have
a straight-shooter SUV with none of the
haughtiness that earmarks so many of its
European rivals so what's different
about the 2014 Jeep Grand Cherokee most
of the obvious changes to the front of
the car where you'll find slimmer
hi-tech headlights with daytime running
lights a more prominent squatter
seven-slot grill a brand new bumper and
also a different bonnet more changes to
be found at the rear mainly the tail
light clusters and the bumper there as
well but for the rest you'll have to get
inside the car what has been retained
are the high waistline the relatively
narrow glass areas and the big wheels
which are handsome five-spoke alloys in
this instance shot with road biased
rubber relatively short overhangs and a
decent ground clearance suggests that
off-roading is very much on the big
jeeps agenda
it has both the horsepower and the
hardware to tackle anything from country
roads and mild gravel to serious
off-road conditions and despite its
fancy-pants exterior and lavishly
appointed cabin it's clear that the
Grand Cherokee still remains a genuine
Jeep at heart which means it isn't
scared of the rough stuff Jeep is
particularly proud of the cabin of the
new Grand Cherokee and rightly so it's
certainly light years ahead of its
predecessor and pride aplasia
goes to the to a brand new displays one
in the center console the other one with
the instrument binnacle and both of them
making life behind the wheel lot more
intuitive and I have to say that both
the foot the finish and the trim here is
a lot better than before the interior
appointments are a lot more stylish with
a dash of European understatement that
is almost Scandinavian in its elegance
the leather upholstery features
carefully executed stitching and the
natural grain wood trims finish his net
rather than glossy and gaudy interior
space is adequate but the bulky front
bucket seats and the relatively narrow
side glass can make the rear bench seat
feel more cramped than it actually is
fortunately a full antenna Rama group
adds welcome light and air a motorised
tailgate provides access to a cargo
compartment with 782 litres of luggage
space wind pack 2 roof height and more
than 1500 liters with the rear seats
folded flat that's plenty of space for
families on extended holiday trips or
even Overland expeditions
in dynamic terms this 3.6 Overland isn't
short of Rio but there are some caveats
the 3.6 liter v6 Pentastar engine in
this vehicle is the smallest of the
three on the options list but small only
because the other two are large v8 on
paper the performance certainly looks
promising
210 kilowatts of maximum power link -
347 Newton meters of torque with a curb
mass in the region of 2.3 tonnes the
Grand Cherokee needs every kilowatt of
the v6 engines urge and it can feel
wheezy and slow to respond you sit high
in armchair comfort in the cabin or the
Jeep Grand Cherokee with a commanding
view of your surroundings which is
useful obviously off-road but on-road as
well terms of performance that v6 feels
powerful enough although you really need
to worth a throttle to make the most of
it the claimed performance figures
created this vehicle with an 8.3 second
not 100 time and a top speed in excess
of Chernykh lumps an hour and both of
those feel quite feasible but really for
me this is all about cruising and about
maintaining a nice consistent speed and
that's when this vehicle literally beats
out the kilometers the claimed combined
cycle consumption figure is ten point
four liters per hundred kilometers but
in reality 17 liters per hundred
kilometers is a more realistic
expectation open road cruising should
see that drop to between 11 and 12
liters
once he swapped off a gravel the
off-road heritage of the Jeep comes into
play and it really is very very
competent of course it also has the
right hardware full-time four-wheel
drive air suspension which allows a ride
height of up to two hundred and eighty
millimeters and the terrain select
device which will fine-tune elements
like the steering the suspension the
braking the throttle response depending
on the particular setting you choose you
can also of course leave it in automatic
and let the vehicle almost do itself if
you really get to the rough stuff here's
low range and then you can truly crawl
over amazing obstacles without the
slightest of problems
there is no mechanical to flock though
the Jeep relies on an electronic version
which allows more wheel spin initially
but is eventually effective enough it's
tempting to consider this latest Grand
Cherokee as little more than a facelift
but the list of improvements and updates
is an extensive one ranging from the
sharper looks and the smarter cabin to
the high-tech instruments and the driver
assistance systems it's still quite an
unwieldy vehicle especially around town
and it could be a bit more responsive in
terms of performance but it is supremely
competent on and off the road with a
comfort and the luxury to match
the Pentastar v-6 has to sing for its
supper given the Jeep's hefty curb
weight but progress is swift enough on
and off road assisted by a smooth auto
box and excellent 4x4 system add the
updated styling lavishly appointed cabin
and high-tech economics and the latest
Grand Cherokee shines where it really
matters don't believe those fuel
consumption figures though